Ah, happy trash day, Calvin.
Wow.
White people celebrate anything.
So, got any big plans
this weekend?
Well, I was planning on going
down to the trash day parade.
But instead I got to take Tina
to this concert on Saturday.
Oh, yeah?
Who are you guys seeing?
REO Speedwagon.
Hey, brother!
I ride the Speedwagon, too.
You know, first time I saw them
in concert was the summer of...
Can we just go back
to talking about trash?
Wait a minute, you
mean you're not a fan?
Ah. Oh, no. It's all Tina.
She drags me to see 'em
every time they come to town.
That's what happens
when you bus a black kid
to a white middle school.
: Well, do you
at least have good seats?
Well, they're in
hearing distance of the stage,
so I'm gonna say no.
Well, I tell you,
they are one of the
best bands to see live.
Better than when I
saw Boston in Boston.
Or Chicago in Chicago.
Definitely better than when
I saw Kansas in Montreal.
Oh, oh, hey. You know what,
in that case, uh,
you want to go?
Are you kidding? I'd love to.
Great. Pick Tina up at 7:00.
You two will have a great time.
Wait, hold on.
You're not coming with?
Nope. Look at that.
It did turn out
to be a happy trash day.
♪ Welcome to the block,
welcome to the neighborhood ♪
♪ Welcome to the hood.
This concert is
gonna be epic.
I am so amped!
I know.
You've been singing
"I Can't Fight This Feeling"
since yesterday.
Well, what could I say?
I couldn't fight the feeling.
Okay.
What else can you tell me
about Tina?
You said that she loves
to garden,
she-she really likes to sing,
and she don't got time for this.
What exactly is "this"?
I don't know, Dave.
She just doesn't have time
for it.
Why are you asking
all these questions?
Well, because you two are
already such good friends,
and this is the first time
that Tina and I
have hung out one-on-one,
and I just want to
make sure she has fun.
That-that she isn't intimidated
by my coolness.
If cool's what you're going for,
you might want to leave
your air guitar at home.
Hmm. Sorry, babe.
I just got it restrung.
Okay, now, let's talk attire.
Guns in?
Guns out?
Dave, I love you,
but I don't got time for this.
Hey, Malcolm,
when did you order that pizza?
Uh, just about 25 minutes ago.Oh!
So five more minutes
and it's free.
Fingers crossed, the driver
gets into an accident.
Oh, Pop, that's terrible.
Oh, just a fender bender.
So the cheese don't slide.
Oh, hey,
if you want to do something
instead of watching TV tonight,
we can go outside and check out
that meteor shower.
Ooh, science stuff.
Yeah.Pass.
Hey, I don't know, Pop.
That actually sounds
pretty cool.
Really?Nope. Hard pass.
Come on, guys.
It's the Leonids meteor shower.
It's the big one
that only happens
every 33 years.
Great. Put me down
for the next one.
Oh, that's the pizza.
I'll get it.You know what?
Let me give you some money.
Ah, don't worry about it, Pop.
It's on me.
You're paying?
Forget your meteor.
Now, that happens less
than every 33 years.
Very, very funny,
but I have a job now,
so let me feed the family.
Veggie pizza?
What family you trying to feed?
Well, to quote you
for the last 20 years,
"I pay, I pick, you shut up."
Did you just tell me to shut up?
No, he was quoting you,
so technically youtold you
to shut up.
Shut up.Got it.
Malcolm, what's gotten
into you lately?
Well, I'm paying
for myself these days,
which means
now I get a say in things.
And right now I say...
"Mmm, mmm! Broccolini."
Smart-ass.
Hey, Gemma, what's up?
I have a problem.
Uh-oh. Is Crackhead Victor
"entertaining"
in your car again?
No.
A bird flew into our house,
and I can't get it out.
Oh. Just offer him
a piece of this damn pizza.
He'll leave.
Actually, birds eat vegetables,
so that might work.
I told you to shut up.
Yep.
Where does a parrot
even come from?
I bet it belongs to that pirate
who lives around the corner.
Are you talking
about Eyepatch Willy
or Peg Leg Kenny?
The guy with the
hook for a hand.
Oh.
That's just Steve.
Actually, Grover,
what you're looking at
is one of the wild parrots
of Pasadena.
Yeah, they came here
from South America
when Pablo Escobar
tried to use them to smuggle
drugs into the country.
Seriously?
Yeah. He stopped
when he realized
they could testify against him.
That's ridiculous, Pop.
Uh, they escaped from an exotic
bird trader back in the '60s.
Boy, you believe
everything you read.
Can we keep it as a pet?
No, sweetie. It's a wild animal.
With possible gang ties.
Look, don't worry.
We'll take care of this.
But, uh, you and Grover
should probably go outside
and look at the meteors
with Marty.
Calvin, it's my house.
I should stay and help.
Okay.
I'm gonna need
some hedge clippers,
a nail gun and a mop
you don't mind throwing away.
It's a nice night.
Let's go outside.
Well, these are
pretty good seats.
Yeah. I would have gotten us
tickets on the floor,
but last time
Calvin booed so loud,
the drummer threw
his sticks at us.
Come on, now. You ain't
got time for that.
I know, right?
Hey, you know what?
Watch out for security. I
snuck a little something
into the concert to get
this party started.
Whoa, Dave. So you bought
a little somethin' somethin'?
Hell, yeah, I got a little
somethin' somethin'.
Ah, that little
somethin' somethin'
is a beach ball.
Oh, uh, excuse me.
Is this your
wife's jacket?Whoa!
Whoa.
We're not married.
No. We're just friends.
Us? Married?
Uh, no, no.
Uh, no, no, no, no.
I think he gets it, Tina.
I mean,
can you believe that?
Thinking that we're
a couple?
Why is...?
Oh, is it because I'm white?
Oh, no.
Been there, done that.
Well, then, is it because
of the age difference?
Hey, hey, hey.
Don't go there, Dave.
Well, then, what is it?
Well, no offense,
Dave, but you and I,
we're two different types
of people, you know?
I mean, I'm a lot.
Well, I'm quite
a bit, myself.
Sure. Sure.
You are.
Oh, I get it.
You don't think that
I'm as cool as you.
Uh, Dave,
it's not your fault.
Nobody is.
Okay. You know what?
Let's go.
Whoa, whoa, wait.
Where are we going?
We're gonna sneak down to
the floor like you wanted.
Oh, come on, Dave.
You know that's not you.
How do you think that
I got to see Phantom
from the ninth row at
the Kalamazoo Playhouse?
Okay. Lead the way.
Great. But stay close.
Much like the Phantom,
I move in the shadows.
Okay, Grover.
You see those streaks of light?
Those are thousands
of space rocks being burnt up
as they enter
Earth's atmosphere.
Wow, that's...
Wait, are you trying to teach me
something on a Saturday?
You'll thank me at homecoming
when they let you set up
the audio equipment.
This reminds me of one of
those silly action movies
where an asteroid's gonna
crash into the planet
and destroy all life on Earth.
Yeah.
But that's really gonna happen.
What?
Well, yeah,
it-it's simple math, Gemma.
Given the sheer number
of asteroids out there,
one of them is eventually
gonna make impact,
and when that happens,
it's all over.
You mean we're all gonna die?
Well, no, sweetie.
Of course not. Right, Marty?
She's right. It'll only kill
people near the impact zone.
The rest of us
will cling to life
in a nightmarish hellscape.
Grover, why don't you go into
the Butlers' and watch TV.
But I want to hear...Stop learning science
and go watch cartoons.
So...
You want to take
a peek-a-roonie?
Didn't find
the hedge clippers,
but I did find
this weird-ass butterfly net.
Yeah, Pop,
that's a lacrosse stick.
Lacrosse?
That's a tough sport.
I didn't know
Dave had it in him.
Oh. Says "Gemma" on it.
Wait, so,
your plan is to catch the bird
in that tiny net?
And scare the poor little guy?
No.
I'm gonna smash it.
Oh, no, Pop. Wait.
How about instead of solving
the problem like a caveman,
we use our brains.
Oh, so now I don't
use my brain?
Well, you are the one
who accused this parrot
of being a drug mule.
And can you prove
that he's not?
Why don't you just sit down
and let me handle this.
Oh, okay.
Caveman watch.
All right, come on, bird.
Come on.
Get on outta here!
Oh.
Well, you got a job now.
Maybe you should just
pay him to leave.
Come on, let's
go, parrot.
Come on. Ca-caw!
Ca-caw!
Give it up, son, you're making
a fool of yourself.
Come on, parrot.
Yeah!
Look at that.
Who's the fool now?
Still you.
Pop, you've been
chasing this bird
around the living room
for half an hour.
It's called
"stalking your prey."
It's something
meat lovers understand.
Yeah, now I'm starting
to see your plan.
You're waiting for it
to die of old age.
Damn it!
Who puts a lamp on an end table?
Yeah, well, I guess the
bird heard your plan.
Or somebody told it to him.
Oh, just admit it, Pop.
Your idea was even
dumber than mine.
Says who?Says the lamp.
You see a broken lamp,
I see one less place
for the bird to land.
Excuse me.
I'm sorry.
Excuse me. Excuse me.
Told you I'd get us
down here.
I cannot believe
that security guard
really believed that you were
Tom Cruise's stunt double.
I just told him I got this scar
jumping out of a plane
in Mission: Impossible 5.
Well, how did
you really get it?
Surgery.
I got the hiccups
in seventh grade
and I swallowed
my retainer.
You know, I didn't think
you could pull it off,
but you really did it;
you got us down here.
That was pretty gangsta.
If you thought
that was gangsta,
wait till I blow
this bad boy up.
It's a jumbo,
it might take a minute.
I can't believe you told Grover
the world's gonna end.
You know, this is why people
hate scientists.
That's kind of
an alarming thing to hear
coming from a school principal.
You can't say those kinds
of things in front of kids.
I don't want Grover freaking out
about the end of the world.
Well, I'm sorry, Gemma,
but I'm a scientist;
I work with the facts.
And I'm a parent, Marty; I lie.
Okay. So what are you saying?
We should just
sugarcoat the truth
and stuff him full
of ignorance and falsehoods?
Yes.
He's seven years old.
He doesn't need to know
the world's a scary place.
All he should be thinking
about are comic books,
playing with his toys
and collecting Pokémon.
You know, I thought about
all three of those today.
Look, I know
it can't last forever,
but he only gets to be innocent
for a little while.
Okay, I get it.
And if it makes you feel better,
the whole asteroid thing
probably won't happen
for another 10,000 years.
Well, that's a relief.
Or Wednesday.
That bird is taunting
us, I know it.
Yeah. He's feeling himself
more than you.
Maybe he got a job
and bought his family
some sunflower seeds.
I don't know why I thought
things would be any different.
What are you
talking about?
You've been riding me for years
about getting a job.
Now I finally got one
and I still can't get
the respect I deserve.
Look, you're a grown-ass man
who finally got a job.
But unless that job is making
trophies, don't expect one.
I don't want
a trophy, Pop,
I just want to be
treated like an equal.
Equal?
To who?
Equal to you.
Okay. Look.
Now, I'm glad that
you're getting a paycheck,
but the truth is, son,
we'll never be equals.
So, what, you're always
gonna be better than me?
No, son,
I'm not better than you,
but I am your father,
which means I'm further
down the road than you.
And it's my responsibility
to guide and teach you,
which means
if you say something stupid,
I'm gonna tell you it's stupid.
Now, if you say something smart,
I'm gonna take credit for it.
Right. So nobody gets
to tell you
when you say something stupid?
Are you kidding me?
I got your mother for that.
All right, man,
so should we just
go tell Gemma that
this bird beat us?
Yeah, I guess so.
Oh.
Don't move, Pop.
W-W-What should I do?
Oh, now you want my advice?
Don't play with me, Malcolm.
Get-get out the way.Okay.
Okay, little bird.
Don't do nothing crazy.
We both want to get home
to our families.
Ha ha!
You did it!
You see that?
You see how cool
I played it?
Yeah.
Took me back to
my street days, man.
Yeah, Pop, you was ice cold.
Well, now that we
handled our business...
Right. Right.
...what do you say
we go home?Let's go, man.
That's Dave's
problem now.
You and your stupid
beach ball.
I'm the only black girl
at the concert
and you got me doing
a perp walk from the front row.
I don't understand.
The beach ball was
a big hit at Phantom.
You try to sneak down again,
and I'm kicking you out.
Oh, my God.Enjoy the concert.
Man, wasn't that guy's
first beach ball.
He cut it right
on the seam.
Okay.
Look, Dave, just put down
the beach ball, okay?
No, I'm not letting this
guy ruin our night.
I'm getting out
my patch kit.
Enough!
He's not ruining
the concert.
You are ruining the concert
for trying to be so cool.
Trying? If I wasn't so
cool, how do you think
I got us down to the floor
in the first place?
You want to know the truth?
I gave him 50 bucks.
Everybody knows that Tom Cruise
does his own stunts!
All right, you know what?
I have another plan.
No, no! No, please.
Please, Dave,
no more plans, okay?
Let's just sit here,
watch the concert,
and go home.
All right. Fine.
Well, don't just sit there.
Well, that's what
you told me to do.
Well, you're doing it
all weird.
I-- You know...
I can't win with you.
All I wanted for us was
to make a connection.
You know, obviously,
not as deep
as the one that I have
with Calvin, but still...
Dave, what are you
talking about?
We do have a connection.We do?
Of course.
If we didn't,
I wouldn't have come here
in the first place.
Ain't nobody
got no time for that.
Dave, I like you.
You and your corny jokes
and your goofy hobbies.
And I like that no matter
how much Calvin makes fun
of your little short
little running shorts,
you just keep wearing them.
You know, sometimes I
wear even shorter ones
just to mess with him.
You see?
You own who you are,
like I do.
You feel me?
Yeah, I feel ya.
So what you're saying is
you got time for this.
All day, boo.
Ooh.
All right!
Yeah. Here we go!
You know, Gemma
told me not to,
but I snuck
something else in.
What?
My air guitar.
Oh.
Well, last concert,
Calvin broke mine.
But I still got
my air drums!
Yeah, ya do.
So is the asteroid
gonna kill us
or do I have to
do my homework?
Uh, no, actually,
I just got a call
from NASA,
and they said they
invented a giant laser gun
that's gonna blow it
right out of the sky.
That's great news.
Right, Grover?
Maybe for you.
Now I have to
write a paragraph
about the American flag.
Thank you.
It's no problem.
Lying to kids is kind of fun.
Dave's been trying
to get that bird
out of y'all's house
for a long time.
Well, it's a pretty
smart bird, Mama.
And very aggressive.
It broke your lamp.
Oh, look.
Dave's door is opening.
Oh.
I gotta see this.
Good talk, little guy.
Go be free.
See that, Calvin?
Just got to play it cool.
Well, you should've closed
your door, 'cause all
he's gonna do is fly
right back into your...
MALCOLM:
Help! Help!
Thank you!
And good night.♪
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org